okay so now on two keys the way you make
keys really simple take your clay not
quite as thick maybe half an inch if you
have a clay board that helps out a lot
so now I have a thin sheet of clay and
I'm only going to make three keys so
we're going to cut a strip at a 90
degree angle and the other one about a
45 so you can see that I have a 45
degree angle on one side 90 on the back
90 isn't important because it can be the
outside of your mold but so again I'm
going to do another 45 degree angle cut
a 45 degree angle cut and that is a key
that's what a key looks like in clay so
it's a lot deeper than it needs to be
you'll see why I'm going to press this
really close to the edge of the
sculpture and then cut it flush to my
wall look at this teeny tiny little key
that keeps the three of these are going
to keep my mold from shifting against
itself when it's no longer get a
sculpture in it you're trying to cast it
up clean that up a little bit
the reason you cut those edges at an
angle is because that angle make sure
that these mold walls don't walk into
themselves if you did square Keys
they're probably going to break you can
do a few depends on the size of your
sculpture I'm doing three top in the two
sides
so I said about a 45 degree angle don't
worry if it's not exact you don't have
to sit there and calculate or measure it
somehow just just eyeball it it looks
really small but this thing is going to
be so important okay
my final key is going to go on top this
one I can make a little wider actually
so I made it a wider key it will still
be really shallow okay so that is going
to go right on top
okay so that's the end of our clay using
the same sponge cleaning up these edges
of this key a little bit now thinking
ahead a little bit what I'm going to do
is eventually when the mold is taken off
I'm going to then place it inside a
bucket upside down and that's how I'm
going to fill it up you don't have a
bucket what you can do is you can build
the top of your wall a little higher and
then cut it completely flat so that you
still give yourself an inch but the top
of your mold is flat and what that does
is you're basically preparing to then
when the mold is open and cleaned up
you'll flip it upside down you have a
flat edge - to rest it on a lot of
old-school mold makers can sometimes
they put you know wooden dowels in their
mold so have four points basically you
just set that over just like a table and
that'll rest on its own but we're doing
the quick and dirty version so we're not
going to be doing that